pwd :- gives the name of Present Working Directory

ls :- Lists the contents whatever is there in the folder

cd :- Used to change the directory

git status :- This command is used to get the status of current working directory whether it is already a git 
              repository or not

git init :- This command is used to initialize a git repository for current working directory

git add --a :- This will move all the files of current working directory to Staging area, also moved files from untracked to Unmodified stage
               and git starts tracking these files.

git add FirstText.txt :- This will move mentioned file i.e. only FirstText.txt will move to staging area.

git commit -m "Initial commit" :- This will commit all the files and will show the message written within double quotes.

git log :- This will u the detail that when the commit was done and who has done it along with the message given at the time of commit

rm -rf .git :- This will delete the current git repository permanently

touch errorLog :- This will create one file with given name e.g. "errorLog" in the current working directory 

We can ignore the files by mentioning the file names in one file e.g. if we create a file with name .gitIgnore
and wants to ignore all files with .log extention then write *.log in .gitIgnore then it will ignore all .log files.
This works only with the untracked files not with the modified or unmodified files.

git diff :- This command compares the working directory and staging area i.e. if we make any change in any file then
            thi command will show the changes made in the file between working directory and staging area.

git diff --staged :- This will compare the staging area with previous commit

git commit -a -m :- This command will commit all the files directly by skiping the staging area but will not commit 
                    the untracked filed i.e. only tracked files will be commited directly.

git rm FileToRemove:- This command will remove the file e.g. if the name of file is FileToRemove then git rm FileToRemove
                      will remove i.e. delete mentioned file.

git mv FirstText.txt First_Text.txt :- This will rename the file FirstText.txt to First_Text.txt

git rm --cached fileName :- This command will move the specified file from tracked to untracked mode i.e. initially
                            the was was tracked by git but after running this command the file will not be tracked
                            by git and the changes done in this file will not be tracked

git log -p :- This command gives u all commits
git log -p 2 :- This command will show u only 2 last commits if we change 2 to 3 then it will show u 3 last commits

git log --stat :- This commands gives details of commits in a short description

git log --pretty = oneline :- This command gives the commit details in one line
git log --pretty = short :- This command gives the commit details in short description
git log --pretty = full :- This command gives the commit details in full description

git log --since=2.days :- This command gives the details of commits done in last 2 days
git log --since=2.weeks :- This command gives the details of commits done in last 2 weeks
git log --since=2.months :- This command gives the details of commits done in last 2 months
git log --since=2.years :- This command gives the details of commits done in last 2 years

git restore --staged fileName :- This command is used to unstage the file from staging area.
git checkout -- fileName :- This command will revert the changes of file to previous commit i.e. if any change is done 
                             then it will show the content of previous commit
git checkout -f :- This will move from current commit to previous commit i.e. all the modified changes will be removed.

